This is one of the greatest, most popular
computer games EVER. Mario… Or Super Mario…
Am sure you've heard the name. An interesting
thing happens in the Super Mario Game, as
you finish each level. A set of levels…
called a World. After a lot of effort, after
much sweat and toil, you will finally meet
a big boss… and you will have to fight that
big boss… and after that fight, see what
happens!……. You have to save the princess…
You are here to save the princess! But, there
is a toad waiting for you, that tells you
this.. "But our princess is in another castle!"
Sorry! Not Found!!
Namasthe! It is the 404th episode today. I
asked my friends, a question like this. "The
upcoming Quotidian video on 6th July… I
am planning to record it, upload it, and then,
immediately delete the YouTube video link.
Guess why?" There weren't many responses,
for a while. But then, one guy, one smart
guy, came up with the right answer. "Ahaa!
I've got it! 404! Video not found!" Yes, I
was trying to crack a joke on this "File missing.
Page not found. Resource not found". For,
it is a famous HTTP error… On the internet,
while you are browsing, you request for a
random page, and if that page is no longer
available, that's what happens, that's what
comes on screen.
This is the famous Netflix website.. where
they have cracked a joke - a movie titled
"Lost in Space" - they have used a scene
from that movie in the background, and they
are asking us "Lost your way?"
This is the Marvel Comics website. Directly
from the Marvel Cinematic Universe… "Hey…
Hydra has stolen this page from the S.H.I.E.L.D
database!" A little joke again!
Here is another. This is the Amazon 404 page.
Guess what they have done? They have demonstrated
that Amazon is not all robots, there are real
humans there, real humans who have pets, and
their pet-photographs, the cats, the dogs,
along with their pet names,… In addition
to just saying Sorry, they are also giving
a personal human touch to the 404 page.
Here is another example - some company,
"Emailcenter" - they ask us "Who do you
want us to fire? You tell us yourself!" A
developer, a designer, a marketer… almost
playfully lined up like for a shooting squad.
You can actually pick one of them. The other
three will gloat and boast.
All these playful things apart, is there a
certain philosophy..? Should we look deeper
into this concept of a 404 error? We go looking
for something. We have reached our original
destination now. What we searched for is nowhere
to be found. Remember? We saw this in Super
Mario. The Princess is not here. She is in
another castle. Is there a deeper layer to
this? That's what we are going to see now.
It started in CERN. The European Research
Agency where the concept of the Internet was
morphing into the much more popular World
Wide Web, Sir Tim Berners Lee, he was laying
the foundations of the Web. This is the corridor.
Along the left edge of that corridor, a plaque
stands in memory of those times. "Where the
WEB was born"! There is a room in this corridor.
The fourth room in the fourth floor of this
building. That is where they had the central
database - which file is where - and
it seems, the people working in that server
room, when a resource was requested, and that
file was not available in that database, they
used to stick a paper poster in front of that
room, saying "404! (That room number!) File
Not Found!" At least, that is how the story
goes! But, it has been pooh-poohed as an urban
myth. Many scientists, one of them, very famous,
Robert Caillou, a person who worked closely
with Sir Tim Berners Lee himself, he has gone
on record and said, "There is no 404 room
in the 4th floor. What are you talking about?!"
But… do you see a joke right there? Hidden
in plain sight? 404 cannot be found! Do you
get it?! Of course it won't be there! Do you
get it?!
We have talked about this in earlier episodes
too. In Quotidian 043, we talked about people
going in search of something and then realising
that it is the journey that is important and
not the destination. We heard about a book
called The Alchemist. And then, Ulysses, after
the Trojan War, after the big win there, is
returning to his hometown victorious. Ithaka.
A poem about his attempt to return home. A
beautiful poem written by Constantine Cavafy.
That poem - titled Ithaka - picturises
very beautifully that your journey is more
important than that little goal. Ithaka will
always be there. We are going to see a few
snapshots from that poem, now.
It starts with this scene. Ulyssess is setting
course for Ithaka, and immediately the poet
warns him "As you set out for Ithaka…"
"Hope the voyage is a long one…! Full of
adventure, full of discovery..! Pray that
you get interesting experiences along the
way!" That is the blessing he gives Ulysses!
He travels for twenty years! Very short distance
from Troy to Ithaka. But, he travels for twenty
years. He is buffeted here and there. But,
each is a learning experience.
"Keep Ithaka always in mind. You needn't forget
that. You shouldn't forget that. That is where
your wife and son are waiting. Arriving there
is what you are destined for. That is your
destiny. That is what you have started out
to achieve, so happily and eagerly. No problem.
But… Do not hurry the journey at all!"
"Take your time, meet people, collect experiences,
learn stuff, so that, you are old by the time
you reach the island. Rich with experiences…
Having met so many people, having learned
so many things…"
"Finally, Ithaka gave you the marvellous journey..
If you are ever going to wonder what Ithaka
really helped you with, it gave you that journey..
Without her, you may not have set out on that
journey! So, even before you reached Ithaka,
she has given what she intended to give you!
She has nothing left to give you now!" Thus,
beautifully, ends that poem.
I have been on this trip. The Sabarimala
Pilgrimage. A 46-kilometre trek. With an "Irumudi"
package balanced on your head. With the unending
chant of "Swamiye Charanam" on your lips,
through terrain like this… through a jungle
really. Through a jungle on a hill. On a series
of hills. Seven hills. You pass through Sarangutthi,
Kallidumkundru, the Pamba river, the Azhudha
river, Kaalakatti, Neelimala, Karimala….
In fact, there is a particular place, a two-kilometre
stretch - I have been there thrice - you
will actually realise why the place is called
Azhudha! Because… by the time you finish
that trek, you would be crying! So hard is
that barefoot journey. At the end of a pious
penance.. a 45-day abstinence… A special
journey. At the end of it, past all the commotion
and milling crowds, this is where you reach,
this is the Sannidhaanam.. Just after this
crowd, are those Eighteen Steps, where they
will pull you up, and next in front of you
will be Saastha, Dharmasaastha, Aiyappan.
But, after all these hardships, after all
these trials and tribulations, when you reach
that top point, you know what greets you?
You know what is waiting there for you? This
is the message!
Tat Tvam Asi. In Sanskrit, it means, "Thou
Art That". "That is You". In the Hindu Scriptures,
there are Four Mahavakyas.. Four sentences
of great essence. Of those four, this is one.
This is the first, in fact. Tat Tvam Asi.
That thing you have been searching for all
along? You have been that! It is you! What
you needed to discover, what you needed to
find out about, was you! That is the beautiful
message there. So, yes, you go in search of
something, and you don't find it,… being
heartbroken about it defeats the whole purpose.
You are missing the whole lesson there. The
lesson is the experiences you have along the
way, the people you meet, the lessons you
learn.
I have just one closing thought here, by Benjamin
Mays. A man from the previous century. A man
who sowed the very seeds for the American
Civil Rights movement. He had a beautiful
quote. It seems he said, "The tragedy of life
doesn't lie in not reaching your goal." Where
does it lie then? "The tragedy lies in having
no goal to reach!" So, don't mope in a corner
crying that you received a 404 error! Think
"What was the journey I had to reach that
404 goal? Was THAT worth it? And, what's my
next goal?" Thank you! We shall meet next
week!